---
title: "Names"
bg: bg4
color: white
fa-icon: address-book
---


# What to say about human names?

## Assumptions for the firstnames part

The first part did the average outcome of a human robot portrait we can dress based on characterDF. But choosing **trend** in a movie could not reflect the reality of the human firstname repartition. The alien teacher notices to its student that he has a baby name dataset of the USA population over the years (#cliffhanger: the teacher knew everything from the beginning but he hide it from his students!). 

From this second dataset, it will be possible to compare the firstnames repartition over the years and see if the movie dataset is representative of the reality. It could also help us to see if a firstname trend arrives in the movie dataset before the real life or the contrary.

For this purpose, we have to define the rules:
    - the study will be done on the **USA population** as the baby name dataset is only for this country
    - the study will be done on firstnames that are present in the movie dataset and the latter **have a movie box office revenue**
    - we will consider a **valid firstname** if the firstname is present IN the character name (it could be its firstname or its lastname or even its second, third, etc. firstname)

## Creation of new firstnames in brith register that come from top 100 movies

When we extract the firstname from the character name, we first led a simple comparison to know if some firstnames are present before to be present in the baby name dataset. We found that **84 firstnames** have a first apperance in a movie before being given to a baby.

<iframe src="img/html/treemap_top_100_characters.html" width="900" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px"></iframe>

Just by hovering with a mouse the above treemap, one can see the movie where the firstname appears for the first time as well as the first year where this firstname was given to a baby. Among the 84 firstnames, it is impossible to conclude that all of them were given to a baby *DUE* to the movie (e.g. despite Star Wars is an influent saga, one can not conclude that the firstname Emperor given for the firstname in 2008 is due to the *Star Wars V* released in 1980). However, it could be the case for others and it is interesting to see from which film the firstname comes from. 

Examples of three firstnames where the movie is more likely to have created the firstname and it was given to a baby after the movie release:
    - Bellatrix (*Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix*, 2007)
    - Neytiri (*Avatar*, 2009)
    - Samwise (*The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring*, 2001)

## Correlation of firstnames trends in movies and in birth register

Now armed with a dataset from their extraterrestrial professor, our alien student can eagerly explores Earth's firstnames trends in the movies and in the birth USA register. He is interesting to see if the trends are the same or not. This way, he could see if the firstname distribution in the movie dataset is representative of the reality over the years. 

After a data exploration and a correct work on the dataset, the alien was ready with its dataset. He filtered the dataset for firstnames that comes from a movie that has a value in the movie box office revenue column and compute the normalized frequency from both datasets.

For the sake of clarity of what is now in his dataset before conducting a deeper analysis, the alien student decided to plot the normalized frequency of some arbitrary chosen firstnames in movies and in birth register. The line about the movies is smoothed by the savgol filter.

<iframe src="img/html/linechart_normalized_frequency_of_some_arbitrary_chosen_firstnames_in_movies_and_in_birth.html" width="1000" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px"></iframe>

As the alien student can notice from this graph is that some trends are sometimes different (in advance or in delay). So, he thinks that doing a linear regression won't help him to evaluate this delay, it could only assess about the correlation between the two trends. He decides to do a cross-correlation analysis to see if there is a delay between the two trends. He computes the cross-correlation between the two trends for each firstname and plot the distribution of the delay. During the cross-correlation, the alien applied a weight based on the score of the movie (the higher the movie box office revenue, the higher the weight).

<iframe src="img/html/barplot_comparison_of_time_delay_for_firstnames_between_birth_and_movies.html" width="1100" height="1700" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px"></iframe>

In simplifying the graph to highlight the top 200 first names for clarity, our diligent alien student discerns a notable feature. Comparing it to the previous graphs with the two curves, the alien observes that cross-correlation effectively pinpoints the time delay between the curves. This proves especially adept when both curves showcase a single peak. However, the alien notes a nuance in cases where the time delay is highly negative. In these instances, the time delay value lacks coherent interpretation because the two curves exhibit strictly opposing trends, making accurate peak comparison challenging.

As the plot is simplified with not all firstnames, the alien student decides to plot the time delay for all firstnames on a dot plot and on a log scale. This way, he can see the distribution of the time delay for all firstnames.

<iframe src="img/html/dotplot_count_of_unique_time_delay_values.html" width="1000" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px"></iframe>

Carefully noting that a time delay of 0 is predominant, there's a suggestive indication that, in general, first names align with the trends observed in movie first names. This prompts a fascinating hypothesis: that people may name their babies influenced by the names they encounter in movies. However, it's crucial to approach this correlation cautiously. The lack of consideration for potential confounders in this interpretation demands prudence. Without accounting for various influencing factors, prematurely concluding a causal link between movie trends and baby names may lead to misconceptions. The alien student, maintaining a vigilant stance, refrains from definitive conclusions, recognizing the need for a nuanced understanding of Earth's naming patterns.

To enhance the aline investigation, he suggest to his alien teachers incorporating datasets on potential confounders, such as major events (e.g., Olympics, elections), celebrity influences, and local factors. However, disentangling these complex influences poses a significant challenge.



