---
title: "Map"
bg: midnightblue
color: white
fa-icon: fa-globe
---


# The Map

After digging into what defines a robot portrait, a curious alien student decided to dive into a dataset and **create a map of Earth**. Drawing on knowledge from their alien cousin in the Star Wars galaxy, they speculated that the "Movie countries" in the movie dataset might be places where humans live on our planet. In their mind, Earth was imagined as a whole planet without water, and **countries were points** on it where human activity was concentrated. They thought that by examining the links between countries sharing movies, they could infer a connection. It seemed easier for them because the link between two countries was simplified into **one dimension**: the number of movies they shared. In their model, a graph edge represented this one-dimensional link between countries.

Based on its knowledge on network data, he will sparse the movie countries from the movie corpus to an **adjacency matrix**. This latter has been used to create a graph where the countries are the nodes and the link between them are the edges. Each link between two countries is **weighted** by the number of movies that they share. Then, he will able to draw a graph but before he is asking himself of to model the attraction of two countries between them. He is thinking to make a parallel with the gravity force that attracts two objects but he would like to assess this force.

His first idea is to create the degree for each node and hence see which nodes are important. In a second time, he decided to evaluate the attraction by the Katz centrality which is a generalized way of computing the degree of a node. In a similar way with the PageRank centrality, both last centralities are based on graph that are directed. However, the graph that he has created is **undirected**. He has no other choice but to use the **Eigenvector centrality** which is a way to compute the importance of a node in a graph.

A high eigenvector score indicates that a node is linked to numerous other nodes, each possessing elevated scores themselves.

<p align="center">
    <div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
        <iframe src="img/html/network_countries.html" width="900" height="900" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px solid white; box-sizing: border-box; margin: 0 auto;"></iframe>
    </div>
</p>

From the alien's perspective, the Earth map proves to be a captivating display, effectively illustrating the **planet's intricate connections**. The countries, in their observation, appear closely positioned, indicating notable relationships between them. 

To aid in comprehension, the map incorporates two circles:
- An outer circle acts as a visual reference for the graph. 
- An **inner circle**, introduced by the alien students, signifies the smallest circle that envelops all G12 countries. This emphasizes the pronounced interconnections among G12 nations, suggesting their significance on a global scale. Interestingly, within the G12 circles, the alien students identify three additional countries (Soviet Union/Russia, Argentina, India) that, as of August 2023 (for Argentina), align with the BRICS group. 

However, the alien scholars acknowledge certain limitations in their analysis. All "countries" are represented based on available data, lacking a means to verify their **current existence**. Despite discerning the appearance date in the dataset, the aliens cannot confirm the current status of these countries. For instance, the Soviet Union persists in the graph, despite its real-world nonexistence.