---
title: "Map"
bg: turquoise
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

# The Map

Before delving into a human, one student alien decided to explore the dataset and to recreate a map of the Earth. By using the knowledge of his alien cousin from a star wars galaxy, he is thinking that the Movie countries present in the movie corpus are some places where human lives on their planet. He will model the earth has one full planet without water and the countries are some point position on it where it concentrates a human activity and by looking at the link between the country that shares movies among them, he will conclude that they have a link.

Based on its knowledge on network data, he will sparse the movie countries from the movie corpus to an adjacency matrix. This latter has been used to create a graph where the countries are the nodes and the link between them are the edges. Each link between two countries is weighted by the number of movies that they share. Then, he will able to draw a graph but before he is asking himself of to model the attraction of two countries between them. He is thinking to make a parallel with the gravity force that attracts two objects but he would like to assess this force.

His first idea is to create the degree for each node and hence see which nodes are important. In a second time, he decided to evaluate the attraction by the Katz centrality which is a generalized way of computing the degree of a node. In a similar way with the PageRank centrality, both last centralities are based on graph that are directed. However, the graph that he has created is undirected. He has no other choice but to use the Eigenvector centrality which is a way to compute the importance of a node in a graph.

A high eigenvector score indicates that a node is linked to numerous other nodes, each possessing elevated scores themselves.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
    <iframe src="img/html/network_countries.html" width="900" height="900" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px solid white; box-sizing: border-box; margin: 0 auto;"></iframe>
</div>


By analyzing the graph and looking at the center, he is admitting that the core is composed of 16 countries and drew a circle to define the core of the Earth planet. He is wondering why some countries appear several times with a small changes in their name. He is thinking that it is due to the fact that the country name may has evolved through time and this is the same country over the years but with his dataset, he has no other choice but to consider them as different countries. 